"The terma" and then we go specifically to the termas. As I said, "terma" is the Tibetan word which
means "hidden treasure" and then also indirectly it is saying "reworld" and "therma" so that means
"hidden treasure" but "reworld" or "to be reworld" so those are the meaning of the termas.
So now, one way to say this terma teaching, of course, generally the entire Buddha teaching is the
terma teachings. All teachings and many great masters say that.
For example, when Buddha gave the teachings, generally the terma teaching is the teaching of the
Buddha Kaptamunyas who came 2600 years ago. Buddha gave varieties of the teachings, all the
teachings. These teachings, where Buddha brought them? Where Buddha came them?
According to the terma level, he revealed the primordial wisdom. It is the revelation of the prim
ordial wisdom. So it is in a way mind the terma. According to the terma tradition, mind the terma is
from all primordial wisdom arising from all that teachings.
First, 20 will of dharma, second, 20 will of dharma and third, 20 will of dharma. All that teaching
is the terma teaching. Buddha not reading or being someone that. It is all that. How he revealed
that teaching according to Buddha?
Because through his realizations, understanding of the realization of the true natures, Buddha
accumulated two merits for three countless eons in the context of the six paramatas.
Six paramatas, generosity practices, morality practices and bacon practices, joyful effort
practices, concentration practices and onya paramata practices.
These all known as medituri activities. That Buddha practices and that Buddha hears to us to do
practices.
And medituri also can be divided or not can be divided into two seconds, known as the wisdom merit
and accumulation merit.
These six paramata practices are these two merits. First three paramatas are the accumulation merit
practices, which is generosity, morality, bacon. Those all are known as within the accumulation
merit practices.
The last two of the bhandia paramata, which is concentration and six paramatas, concentration and b
handia paramata. These two are the wisdom merits.
And so now, three parts, three are accumulation merits. The last two are the wisdom merits. And
then whatever the fourth one, the fourth one is joyful effort paramata.
That is assistant to both part accumulated merits. Joyful effort needed to accommodate the merit
accommodations. Joyful effort we needed for the wisdom paramatas. So it is like joyful paramata is
like fuel of the both paramatas.
To accommodate that two merits, what Buddha did? According to teaching, Buddha removed all the obsc
urations.
Obscurations also there is variety kind of explaining, but obscurations to obscurations. All
summarize. The emotion obscurations and knowledge obscurations. Buddha removed them.
How he removed them. According to the Gendelung Mahayana teaching, Buddha removed gradually one
after another. And how long he took? Three countless years he took that.
Gradually with joyful effort, never give up that goal and beauty that our projections. And
something good for us, good for us. Buddha never give up.
Buddha never tired, never bored, never thought that is enough, is continually driving forward with
beautiful goal. Goal to benefit all sentient beings with the best upon completion.
This sex paramata, foundation of sex paramata is completion. It is bodhicata that you all know.
Sex paramata is the tool to accumulate, to aggravate the bodhicata. Bodhicata, if you can also
summarize more, can be drawn to that simple way, is compassion.
So sex paramata is absolutely based on the pure compassion. It has no discriminations. It is pure,
unconditioned compassion.
Or even more, no grasping, no clinging, compassion. That way Buddha accumulates. And when during
the accumulation, we develop what?
Then five parts, ten movements, those kinds, those are the way to purify that obscurations and reve
rent the beauty and the natures of our world, these natures.
So purify the emotional obscurations, purify the knowledge obscurations.
When it is completely purified, then Buddha is fully enlightened, fully enlightened, fully
enlightened, then you become the ruler of your primordial wisdom.
We are not deluded of our primordial wisdom. Our primordial wisdom is not deluded. You become the
ruler of the primordial wisdom.
Once the primordial wisdom is reworked, then all those teachings came from that primordial state.
Best upon compassion, best upon loving kindness, best of the exaggerated things are nothing higher,
nothing lower, nothing overstated, understated.
It is exactly the way things are. And that is what in the teachings said, truth, truths. Exactly
the way things are related to truth, exactly the way things are an absolute truth, exactly how they
both are related to the absolute truth.
Even though they divide as absolute truth, truth, but the relative truth, the reality level, they
are the same. It is the same status. Absolute truth is the relative truth, relative truth is the
absolute truth. It is the same status.
That is how it works. So Buddha's teaching is the teaching of the exact weightiness of nature,
exactly as it is.
And for that reason, British teacher, Buddha himself said, he is simply just a teacher. He is a
teaching showing the way things are.
It is nothing Buddha's teaching is a mystery or nothing can be anything, anything more than that.
It is exactly the way nature is.
So therefore, in the larger scope level, the entire Buddha teaching can be as, not can be, is like
mind, wisdom mind. They are my teachers.
Then as we go specifically, all those teachings, how they appear in historians, one after the
others.
In this particular, for example, we look to the Pandya Paramata teachings. 100,000 students
teaching of the Pandya Paramata teaching is revealed by the Nagar Juna. Nagar Juna both these
teachings.
Nagar Juna. And in the teachings, Buddha Gindas teachings in the world just speak more things, but
teaching just appeared in the human world.
Who kept this? Who kept by Nagas? It is only in the Pandya Paramata teaching as a whole variety of
different sections.
There is a larger section of the Pandya Paramata teaching and middle sections of the Pandya Param
ata teaching and small sections of Pandya Paramata teachings.
Largest sections of Pandya Paramata teachings are kept by the Gods.
And middle sections of Pandya Paramata teachings are kept by the Gandharvas in the teachings.
And the small section of Pandya Paramata teaching is kept by the Nagas.
Because all these Gods and Gandharvas and Asuras and Nagas are the disciples of the Buddha Shatyama
. When Buddha gave the teachings, they all attended.
They attended and did the teaching. So they kept this.
But this Nagar Juna became the teacher of the Nagas according to historians.
And they gave the offer to Nagar Juna. Whole 100,000 students from Pandya Paramata teaching as
offerings.
And Nagar Juna is also known as one of the great medicine men's doctors.
And Nagas has according to the teaching, Nagas has often a lot of health troubles.
And one time they got a lot of health troubles, couldn't really cool easily and invited Nagar Juna
and cool those diseases.
And because, as well as because of that reason, then Nagar Juna received the whole Pandya Paramata
teaching of the 1,000 staff teachers.
That's the renouement. Again, this is the reality of our dharma.
Even though it's written in the name as dharma. Dharma teaching is dharma.
Dharma is all the pantherists, if you think. Think. All is related.
Even though it's officially not named. In historical dharma they are not named as dharma.
But reality level is dharma. It's not existing in the human world, those are.
They are revered by the many great masters. One after another, one after another.
All you look at the history of the pantherists. His dharma teaches.
So we have to think of the largest global levels, what the dharma is.
That is how all are revered. And of course, on the kalaitakra teachings also.
Of course, nobody says as dharma again. But reality level is dharma.
It's not existing in India that time. But again, these teachings.
And many history said, just before his Mahabharic Nirvana or after his enlightenment.
Many scholars have different stories. But anyway, when he gives these teachings,
he gives teaching, teaching again to the many celestial beings.
Not the common worlds and including the king of Shambhala.
Shambhala said, many, many celestial beings of the Shambhala kings came to receive this teaching.
And they kept, they took their teachings and received their teachings.
Around 11th century or the 10th century.
Then Kalatakra again appeared in India, a famous master known as Tuyappa.
So in a way, even though he don't say that exactly in his story,
but he revered it. Tuyappa revereled that teachings.
So therefore, we looked at all these ways.
This mostly is like teachings of, many have dharma teachings.
So dharma teaching is the mainstream of the way how the teaching is preserved,
how the teaching is continued and how teaching is maintained.
That is the kind of general way to understand.
Now we go also specifically to the Myanmar schools.
The Myanmar school has preserved the lineage teaching by two lineages that we all know.
Kama lineage and dharma lineage.
Kama and dharma lineage.
Now kama lineage everything, what are those kama teachings are generally?
The kama means oral transmission lineage.
Oral transmission lineages are again mainly in the teachings on the inner dharmas.
And such as Mahayoga, Anoyoga, and Akiyobas.
Again, everything of how this teaching came to this world
is all taught by the Buddha Shakta Muni in different forms, different duties,
emanated different duty forms.
Buddha gives teachings in the celestial realms.
Why Buddha have to give this in the celestial realm?
In the teaching office said that human world at that time they are not ready to receive teachings.
Because Buddha's teaching is accorded the readiness of the individualist
and their capabilities, Buddha gave the teachings.
Buddha never caused any teachings.
And also in the teaching said Buddha gave the teaching as a doctor gave the medicines.
As properly needed to the teaching, that.
Or also another example in the teaching said Buddha gave the teaching exactly where?
With human growth, for example how our parents, with baby tongue,
one baby will eat, eat, eat.
Or infant tongue, and then baby tongue, and child tongue, and then grown tongue.
Fooders are provided a core in their capabilities,
a core in their readiness, and never force.
Force will make obstacles.
Therefore, Buddha is known as full of skillful means, full of balance,
full of understanding, evaluating stuff, should be done.
So Buddha gave the teaching accorded.
So that time, teachings are not ready to give such as in a tantra teaching or a tantra teaching.
Or even Mahayana teaching many are.
Not Buddha gave all the level of that.
But Buddha gave this teaching in a Selahiram.
They are ready, they are very recipient, and they are ready to receive these teachings.
So Buddha gave teaching, and they kept all the teachings.
And then when the available is ready, those teachings are then rewarded by one upon another,
one upon another that came in the teachings.
Such as, and all that, teachings.
And those are teachings, how the teachings are continually preserved.
They are known as daskama teachings,
preserved by the three lineage that you all heard.
The mind-to-mind transmission lineage, and other symbolic transmission lineage,
and other transmission lineage that continually preserve all those teachings.
And each of those teachings has all that three lineage.
Mind-to-mind transmission lineage, and symbolic transmission lineage, and other transmission
lineage.
Each of those are different.
And the mind-to-mind transmission lineage is the dharmakaya Buddha gave the teaching
at mind-to-mind transmission lineage to the dharmakaya levels.
Without as a subject and object, without as an activity beyond any activities, give the teachings.
How they give the teaching?
Maintaining perfectly in that realization status, and be in that status,
and all the audience also experience or realize the same thing.
As water merges to the water, or life merges to life,
there is nothing related to anything.
It is beyond action, beyond activity, beyond the audience, audience.
So what is the teaching?
The wisdom body of the dharmakaya transmitted as mind-to-mind transmission lineage
to the wisdom of all human-like wisdom retinas.
Retinas, without as actions or activities.
So that is available.
And who are those retinas, who are the five dharmakaya Buddhas?
And man and female, all those are the retinas of the dharmakaya Buddhas.
That is really how the mind-to-mind transmission lineage does feel.
The second is Sambola transmission lineage.
Sambola transmission lineage also contains mind-to-mind transmission lineage.
But now, Sambola transmission lineage becomes, let them all, action with activities,
with subject and object.
That has failed, I think many of you know, in history.
In history, that is two truths.
Sambola transmission lineage has non-human beings and with human beings.
Two groups started.
And non-human beings are suggested that it started from such as three Buddhas,
the Jucheri, and as well as Avalokiteshara.
Avalokiteshara and the Vedya Panis.
As they are the principal disciples of also the Vadashaktamani,
they are also in the order to benefit for the beings, they appeared as like bodhisattvas.
But reality really, they are Buddhas, absolutely, totally in life of Buddhas.
So, when they appeared as disciple of the Buddhas, and then there is the teaching of this.
So, all this nth another teaches.
Then, they are transmitted, these teachings, Sambola.
Many of them, the Sambola teachings are connected with Mahayoga and Anayoga teachings.
And then they are transferred, and the medhikari are transferred to all the Sambola,
by the Sambola lineage systems, with the mind transmission lineage, to the God's levels.
Avalokiteshara transmitted that teaching, same way to the Nagas.
And then, as well as Vedya Panis transmitted that teaching to all the Yakchas.
And so, that's how they transmitted these teachings.
So, that is really how the human, or non-human lineage, Sambola classmateship lineage.
And then, second is human transparency, Sambola transmission lineage, with the human beings.
That started with the Agora and the teaching.
The Buddha, probably seven years after the Buddha Chaktamanism, Mahaparin and the Rana.
And then, the three excellent great Vedyadara gathered in the Shri Path of the Middle-Right
Mountain,
which many of his great masters identified that in Shri Lanka.
Lanka is known as Shri Path of the Mountains.
And the top of that mountain, these five excellent Vedyadara gathered together,
and they met special yearning.
Yearning because they see, whether Chaktamanism is inside Mahaparin and the Rana.
Now, who will dispel darkness or war?
Who will assure everyone to the enlightenment? All that.
Those different kind of statement.
Both from the seven different yearning statement, they met.
And that moment, Vaidyapani appeared in the sky, and he gave the teachings.
He gave the teachings.
Even the Buddha is, in physical Buddha, is entered Mahaparin and the Rana.
But the teachings know this is existing, and this is what is very real.
They are all entered under the teachings, particularly Mahayoga and Anayoga teachings.
And that moment, then, they also hid in those teachings.
As they received their teachings, they hid in their back.
Back in the sky in the teachings.
And later on, then, soon after that, all the teachings started coming.
In the Mahayoga teachings, Anayoga teachings came to this human world
and started with Kinsa, Zai, and as well as Bhumalakriti,
Bhumalakriti, the famous Vidyadhara, or the Bodhisattva Bhumalakriti.
In the Tibet, it is known as Lathamba Tamami Tapas.
So that's how that teaching came.
So that means, also this Mahayoga, Anayoga teachings,
all are connected to as a Thelma teaching.
How that came in this world, even the Buddha kept teaching.
So this is how it is.
And then Mahayoga teachings, generally, it has two main teachings.
The third section of the teaching, Mahayoga,
and the practice aspect of the Mahayoga teachings.
And both are as the Thelmas.
And now, the practice aspect of the Mahayoga teaching,
I will go over here how this...
And the teaching said again that this great...
the earth with the Thelmas.
The earth with the Thelmas revealed this teaching,
or they revealed this teaching from very famous sacred western dakini,
known as Lathamba.
And she handed these teachings.
This is the practice aspect of the Mahayoga teachings.
Those are commonly also known as earth-heavy teachings.
Which is, again, how that is happened here.
Again, everything.
See that this great vidadara gathered,
this earth-grade vidadara gathered in the servacha,
or the whole group, whole group places,
which is not so far from the good guy that identified
this very famous cemetery called Kolguen Cemetery.
And with all this earth-grade vidadara come together,
and meditating,
and that moment, then, the great sacred western dakini,
Lathamba appeared in the direct perceptions,
appeared right in front of them,
and then she handed earth-grade vidadara teaching
to earth-grade these masters, one after another.
So, first is,
uttar-heruka, that teaching is in the lock-ed,
the golden lock-ed,
and she handed it there to the great vidadara master,
bumal matars, bumal matars. And the yangta-heruka teaching
is in the serval lock-ed,
and she handed that to the vidadara master, honkaras.
And the yamitaka teachings is iron lock-ed,
and she handed that to the vidadara master, yapar,
siji, or magishiri matars.
In the high-angle of the pima-heruka teachings,
all that is in a copper lock-ed.
Lock-ed, and she handed that to the vidadara master, nagarjuna.
And vaidyakalaya teaching,
vaidyakalaya-heruka teaching is in a turquoise lock-ed.
She handed that to the vidadara sambharas.
And then all the rakini teachings,
are in the red stone lock-ed,
red gun-ed or red stone lock-ed,
and then she handed it to the master, vidadara master, dana santakas.
And all the mighty forces of the worldly beings,
like they can't relate how to capture and how to activate their power
to the poor benefit of this,
that that teaching is contained in the gun-ed lock-ed.
Lock-ed, the brown gun-ed lock-ed, lock-ed,
she handed that to the vidadara master, rambam-ed.
And then all the heruka teaching, known as 'tanga',
so all the mantra and the mantra aspect of the teaching,
the mantra aspect of the teaching,
the teachings are again in a zhiyantra.
And that is intubated.
The gun-ed has many different lines of the gun-ed, that lock-ed.
The strong gun-ed has many lines intubated, known as zhiyantra.
It's like lock-ed, it has, and she...
Akhet, thank you.
And Akhet's lock-ed is zhiy, zhiy lock-ed,
and he handed that to the shinting garbage, garbage.
So that's how really she handed that teaching in the lock-ed,
and she handed it to this great master.
And they are the reveller of this great at-heruka teachings,
of the prakras aspect of teaching, which is known as at-heruka teachings.
Then all that, particularly that combination of the embodiment
of all at-heruka teachings is known as dirtig nipa, embodiment of sugaka.
That teaching is, again, a lock-ed known as the all-jewel combination,
lock-ed that we made out of different jewels in that lock-ed,
and she handed that to Gurben Masambhava, Gurben Masambhava.
So that makes nine-herukas, nine-herukas.
And then later on, Gurben Masambhava also gives that final teaching
to the at-heruka, with which they don't have that.
And also that with the daras, teaching of each of those masters
gives that teaching to Gurben Masambhava.
Sambhava, Sambhava, Sambhava become the holder of the entire at-heruka teachings.
So that is briefly about how these teachings are written,
also in Mahayoga, Anu-Yoga, and Adi-Yoga.
And particularly, maybe I should talk, Adi-Yoga.
Again, Adi-Yoga is the same.
It's a doki teaching. Well, again that teaching, but this teaching is not happening in a human
world.
And who will revere that teaching? Who will revere that teaching in this human world?
By Gharab Dorty.
So, even though it's not really mentioned as dharma, but it is dharma.
Gharab Dorty revere that teaching, what Bola already did, the teaching.
In a select world, he revere that teaching in this human world
and share that continuity.
So that is really about, generally all these teachings are very much connected to the dharma.
Even they don't have the name of the dharma teachings.
So that is really what we will talk about.
Now, I'll go to the...